The next thing I'm gonna have you do
is I'm gonna have you code, what?
So we talked about the layouts.
We've talked about
things to watch out for.
We've coded our semantic HTML.
What is step three?
>> Mobile first.
>> Mobile first, right?
So the next thing you're gonna work
on then is the mobile design of
how this is supposed to look.
So in this step,
you might wind up adding some divs or
spans if needed to add classes, right?
So you're gonna need to style this up,
just to work on mobile.
That is all you need to do, make sense?
We'll come back and we'll talk about the
answers to the mobile results, sound good?
All right, so remember that when
we talk about mobile display,
this is our default styles.
They are outside of media queries, so
they're no media queries involved
when we work mobile first.
This is what you get by default, and
then we're gonna use media queries
as we go to larger size screens.
So we don't need to set
up any media queries or
anything else as we put in our CSS,
we just start writing it.
So what I'm going to do here, let's start
from just to point out a couple of things
that came up here in the classroom, the
button up here at the top of the screen.
If you don't have your code on the left or
the right, whichever you prefer,
these buttons here at the top will change
that orientation and will make this
work much easier for you as we're working
with responsive design essentially.
Notice that as you grab the little
divider here and pull it to the side,
there's a tiny number that comes
up down here on the bottom.
That will tell you exactly how wide
this window is, the display window here.
And I said in the website,
Scroll back down here,
this is less than 600 pixels.
So what we wanna do here to set up is
have this to be less than 600 pixels.
So I've got it at 428, whatever.
You've got something like that.
So I know that once again,
I have some things I need to do.
One of the things that happens,
if you look at the word convenience here,
kind of a big,
long word here in the title.
As I make the screen smaller,
I do get to a point where convenience
starts to scroll off, okay?
So we may want to make our font
sizes a little bit smaller.
Could just be the heading or
we could scale overall?
And I went through this with you
earlier in our base styling.
We had talked about all of
the things here for our font scale.
One of the things that we could do
is change either our base size or
our scale in order to reduce
the size of our fonts overall.
So I am going to do that here.
The very first thing I'm going to
do is declare root once again.
And I'm going to declare
my scale to be 1.15.
Because then everything is going
to reduce proportionately overall,
and that word convenience doesn't
scroll off until I get to 247 pixels.
So again, is that important?
Do we need to go smaller, depends?
It depends, it always depends.
What devices are you supporting, right?
All right, so this seems to be small
enough to me for phones and such.
So that's the first thing I'm going to do.
Then as somebody had noticed,
the word instant was a little bit bigger
in some spots than it was in others.
And is it bigger here?
>> It was just on the browser one.
>> Yeah,
it's a little bit bigger on tablet and
it's definitely bigger
here on the desktop.
Did I make it bigger here?
I think I made it bigger there.
So to make the font size
bigger on fancy text,
We can just say our font size is
var(--lg), the large size.
And notice that it doesn't grow
all that much here on the mobile
device because our scale is smaller,
right?
But it will on some of the other
sizes as they come later,
and we can change our line height to 1.2.
We'll make things a little bit,
give us a little bit more space.
Because now the words
Instant Coffee Facts are wrapping,
we wanna have a little
bit more space there.
Okay, now as for the article itself.
So we have a header, right, and
we have an article in our HTML.
That's it, we have a header,
we have an article.
The header's already styled,
basically, with that.
We're done.
So now, all we have to do
is worry about the article.
Inside of the article,
we have the following.
We have an h2.
We have a paragraph.
We have another paragraph,
another paragraph.
We have our image and
we have our footer, okay?
So this is often helpful.
If you start collapsing your HTML here,
it starts to surface the relationships
between these HTML elements.
And that is important because
that goes into your CSS styling.
So some things we can do here for
styling our article, Are the following.
We can say that the padding
is something like 2rem, 1rem.
So that will give us some space
at the top of the article,
getting the heading off of the header,
right?
And it'll give us a little
bit of space side to side, so
that we're not into the edges
of the browser window.
We can also set a max
width of 1200 pixels.
I usually like to do this because it
becomes possible to have lines that are so
long, maybe you've been on a page like
this, where you're trying to read.
And you read and you read and you read,
and you go to the next line, and it's so
easy to skip, right?
Our eyes are not designed to
read lines that are this long.
So we wanna reduce the width of our
page overall to keep it readable, okay?
So let's just set a max
width of 1200 pixels.
It won't matter here at mobile sizes,
but it will later.
Yes, Dinesh?
>> So nowadays,
you're using secondary monitors-
>> Sure.
>> [INAUDIBLE] large size.
>> Yes.
>> So
these will come into handy when
we use those kind of things.
>> Yes, those extra large monitors, and
you're gonna like the columns, too, for
those extra large monitors.
Watch those tricks coming up here.
Okay, I wanna center this on the page,
margin of 0 auto.
Now that I've given this
a max width of 1200 pixels,
as we get larger than 1200 pixels, so
let me just show you what that looks like.
Not so much relevant right now,
but it will later.
What will happen, and my screen is
too small to show you at the moment.
Let's see, I zoom out a little bit.
So you can see what happens as we
wind up with, as Dinesh was saying,
on some of those larger screens,
if we have extra space,
we're gonna distribute it evenly on
either side and center this on the page.
Makes sense?
Okay.
We'll reset.
Okay, great.
And then, all right, so
now we get to the good part.
The big question here, basically,
this is all formatted, more or
less, except for the footer.
And I'll just format that for
you real quick.
In our article footer, we can just say
our margin top will be var(--lg).
Hey, we have a number,
let's just work with it.
That'll give us some space there.
And then I can say,
make my font size var(--small).
Okay, so my citation is a little
bit smaller than everything else.
>> Does it have to be article footer or
we can just give footer?
Because here we just used [CROSSTALK].
>> If you do just footer, then it will
apply to any footer on the website.
In this case,
it makes no sense cuz it's one page.
Yeah, okay, then comes the fun part.
So the fun part is,
the image is here in the HTML down
at the bottom,
we wanna put it up here at the top.
How are we going to do that?
There are two possible answers to this.
Anybody wanna suggest one?
>> I was trying with an order,
but it didn't work out.
So I don't know why.
>> We will have to do
some kind of ordering.
But in order to do an ordering,
how are we going to do that?
>> Flexbox?
>> You could do Flexbox or?
>> I looked at the hint,
it's an object position.
>> Well, that's part of it, but not yet.
>> Okay, is it a grid?
>> Or grid, flexbox or grid.
Those are our two options for
layouts these days.
Pretty much, there are some other things.
But generally speaking,
we're either gonna use flexbox or grid.
Flexbox is good if we don't know
exactly how many things we have.
We have a stream of images
coming off a database and
we don't know if it's gonna be 20 or
200, flexbox is great for that.
But if we haven't design,
we know exactly how it's going to work,
you may choose to use grid.
And grid as what I'm
gonna do a lot of today.
So to get started with grid, the very
first thing we're gonna, and by the way,
I'll mention, I have a whole course
that's devoted to flexbox and
grid right here at Frontend Masters.
And it'll walk you through
all of this step by step.
But in brief, what we will do is say,
display: grid.
Flexbox and grid are all about
the relationship of parents and
children when it comes to the HTML, okay?
So we always have to pick which our parent
is gonna be and which are our children.
So our article is going to be our parent,
or the grid container, in this case.
And then that'll give us access to the h2,
the three paragraphs,
the image and the footer,
as the children of that article.
And we can rearrange them in space.
What happens if I wanted to,
for God knows whatever reason,
I wanna reorder this element right here?
Could I do that with grid?
If grid is all about parents and
children, could I reorder?
>> We're talking about just
children as immediate children?
>> Correct.
>> Then no.
>> No because is a grandchild of article,
yes?
>> Or a great grandchild.
Yes, correct,
great grandchild, true, right?
So grid is not going to touch those
elements inside a footer at all.
It's only gonna touch h2,
three paragraphs, image and footer.
Make sense, okay?
So for grid, then, we need to tell it
how many columns we wanna have and
how many rows we wanna have.
So grid template columns will tell us
how many columns do we wanna have.
And how many columns do we want?
One column,
one column here at mobile design.
So then, we can tell it how wide
we want that column to be, and
I am going to say 1fr.
fr is a unit unique to the grid.
You will not encounter it anywhere else.
It doesn't work anywhere
else except inside of grid.
And fr stands for?
>> Fractal, something.
>> Fractals, the French,
the something, right?
>> [LAUGH]
>> It's a fraction.
One fraction of the page.
Well, how many fractions
do we have on this page?
>> One.
>> However many you want.
In this case,
we're gonna say there's one and
this column is gonna occupy that
whole fraction of the page.
Could I have just said something
like 100 fr or 1,000 fr?
[COUGH] Sure, one column.
Now it's 1,000 fractions wide,
makes sense?
Okay, we'll keep it simple though,
we'll just call it 1.
We're also gonna tell it how many rows
we're gonna have, grid-template-rows.
How many rows do we have?
>> Six.
>> Six, how did you get six, Andrew?
>> You counted the HTML elements earlier?
>> Yeah.
>> The h2, three p's.
>> One, two, three, four, five, six.
There's six elements.
There's six children, so we want six rows.
And the way we can write that is we
could write it the same thing six times.
Or we could say as
a different shorthand here,
repeat(6, auto).
And auto, of course, is the height
of the rows, automatic, whatever.
We want it to be as high as the column.
All right, So, yep?
>> Sorry,
what would the longhand be of that?
>> The long version?
Yeah, what would it look like?
auto, auto, auto, auto, auto, auto.
Totally legit, you can do that, okay?
But that's what you would have, otherwise.
All right, good question.
Okay, so as for this image here,
one of the things that I'm going to
do to this image is I'm
gonna put a div around it.
And the reason I'm doing this will
become clear a little bit later,
but I'm gonna give this a div
with a class of article-,
img-wrapper.
And this has to do with how the image
is going to resize as we go forward.
So I'm just gonna add it here and
just say magic is coming.
Technically with what we have done so
far, you don't need this div, but
we will when we get to later layouts.
And since I wrapped it around the image,
this is just taking the place of
the image by itself in that row.
Make sense?
Okay, so
now what I'm going to do then is I'm
gonna call my article-img-wrapper.
And now what I need to do is specify
where I would like that image to display.
So if we count these rows,
you can think of these as having
lines that go across the page, right?
Our heading here goes from one to two,
make sense?
We count like humans,
we don't count like engineers.
We don't start with zero,
we start with one.
One to two, and then our next one
goes from two to three, right?
Our next one goes from what?
Three to four.
The next one goes from four to five,
all right?
So right now,
our image is from five to six.
Where do we want it?
We want it from two to three.
So we're going to say grid-row: 2/3.
And that will move your image up right
on up there to the top of the page.
[SOUND] I saw that.
[LAUGH]
>> What's the difference if I just put
in a 2, it goes where I expect as well?
>> Basically, if you just say 2,
it's going to assume that
it's gonna go from 2 to 3.
>> Cuz there's another property where you
could specify how many rows it takes.
>> Correct, so I could say,
I actually want it to go 2 to 4.
And in the design that we have,
it will not look different.
It'll just make an extra row for
the last item.
I don't wanna get into that
level of complication.
But by always specifying the first
number and the last number,
you'll never be wrong.
So that's why we do it this way.
Yes, Mark?
>> There's a couple of questions online.
>> Great, love it.
>> Instead of the auto,
can we write 1fr six times?
>> You could, let's try that.
What do you think will happen?
Anybody wanna take a guess?
>> Force each child to be the same size?
>> Hm.
>> That's what I would think, yeah.
>> One, two, three, four, five, six.
>> So they all size to the largest one?
>> They all size to the largest one,
see that?
That's probably not what you want.
>> Okay.
>> Okay, yeah, so
they're all sizing to the largest one.
So when we say auto,
it's just gonna size to the content.
Now I'm gonna rewrite it this way,
6, auto.
Yes?
>> Could you use figure instead of div?
>> You could use figure instead of div,
that would be absolutely fine.
You don't have to have the figure caption.
The image is moving around in the design.
So yes, figure would be
absolutely fine instead of div.
Great suggestion, other questions?
>> I missed, sorry.
I missed the explanation about
dynamically setting the rows,
is that not possible with grid?
>> Dynamic, like we don't know
how many rows we're gonna have?
Grid is smart enough that if
we've called for six things,
if we had 25 things,
grid would continue to make rows.
It will just continue to make them.
Even though we've
specifically specified 6,
it will make 25 rows of auto
height in this particular case.